README.md, before:

# go-mmproxy

[![CI](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/kzemek/go-mmproxy)](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kzemek/go-mmproxy)](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/blob/master/LICENSE)

`go-mmproxy` is a standalone application that unwraps HAProxy's [PROXY protocol](http://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) (also adopted by other projects such as NGINX) so that the network connection to the end server comes from client's - instead of proxy server's - IP address and port number.
Because they share basic mechanisms, [Cloudflare's blogpost on mmproxy](https://blog.cloudflare.com/mmproxy-creative-way-of-preserving-client-ips-in-spectrum/) serves as a great write-up on how `go-mmproxy` works under the hood.

This is a Go reimplementation of [mmproxy](https://github.com/cloudflare/mmproxy), created to improve on mmproxy's runtime stability while providing potentially greater performance in terms of connection and packet throughput.

## Building

```shell
go install github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy@latest
```

You'll need at least `go 1.21` to build the `go-mmproxy` binary.
See [Go's Getting Started](https://golang.org/doc/install) if your package manager does not carry new enough version of golang.

## Requirements

`go-mmproxy` has to be ran:

- on the same server as the proxy target, as the communication happens over the loopback interface<sup>1</sup>;
- as root or with `CAP_NET_ADMIN` capability to be able to set `IP_TRANSPARENT` socket opt.

<sup>1</sup> This is not a hard requirement, and with routing magic go-mmproxy can be ran on a different host than the target(s).
See the [docker-example directory](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/tree/main/docker-example) for a working example.

## Running

### Routing setup

Route all traffic originating from loopback back to loopback:

```shell
ip rule add from 127.0.0.1/8 iif lo table 123
ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 123

ip -6 rule add from ::1/128 iif lo table 123
ip -6 route add local ::/0 dev lo table 123
```

If `--mark` option is given to `go-mmproxy`, all packets routed to the loopback interface will have the mark set.
This can be used for setting up more advanced routing rules with iptables, for example when you need traffic from loopback to be routed outside of the machine.

#### Routing UDP packets

Because UDP is connectionless, if a socket is bound to `0.0.0.0` the kernel stack will search for an interface in order to send a reply to the spoofed source address - instead of just using the interface it received the original packet from.
The found interface will most likely _not_ be the loopback interface, which will avoid the rules specified above.
The simplest way to fix this is to bind the end server's listeners to `127.0.0.1` (or `::1`).
This is also generally recommended in order to avoid receiving non-proxied connections.

### Starting go-mmproxy

```
Usage of ./go-mmproxy:
  -4 string
    	Address to which IPv4 traffic will be forwarded to (default "127.0.0.1:443")
  -6 string
    	Address to which IPv6 traffic will be forwarded to (default "[::1]:443")
  -allowed-subnets string
    	Path to a file that contains allowed subnets of the proxy servers
  -close-after int
    	Number of seconds after which UDP socket will be cleaned up (default 60)
  -dynamic-destination
        Traffic will be forwarded to the destination specified in the PROXY protocol header
  -l string
    	Address the proxy listens on (default "0.0.0.0:8443")
  -listeners int
    	Number of listener sockets that will be opened for the listen address (Linux 3.9+) (default 1)
  -mark int
    	The mark that will be set on outbound packets
  -p string
    	Protocol that will be proxied: tcp, udp (default "tcp")
  -v int
    	0 - no logging of individual connections
    	1 - log errors occurring in individual connections
    	2 - log all state changes of individual connections
```

Example invocation:

```shell
sudo ./go-mmproxy -l 0.0.0.0:25577 -4 127.0.0.1:25578 -6 [::1]:25578 --allowed-subnets ./net-prefixes.txt
```

### Docker examples

You can find an example Dockerfile and a Docker Compose setup in the [docker-example directory](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/tree/main/docker-example).

## Benchmark

### Setup

The benchmark was ran on Dell XPS 9570 with Intel Core i9-8950HK CPU @ 2.90GHz (12 logical cores). The upstream service to which proxy sent traffic was mocked by [bpf-echo](https://github.com/path-network/bpf-echo) server.
Traffic was generated by [tcpkali](https://github.com/satori-com/tcpkali) v1.1.1 .

The following command was used for load generation in all cases (50 connections, 10s runtime, send PROXYv1 header for each connection, use `PING\r\n` as TCP message):

```
tcpkali -c 50 -T 10s -e1 'PROXY TCP4 127.0.0.1 127.0.0.1 \{connection.uid} 25578\r\n' -m 'PING\r\n' 127.0.0.1:1122
```

### Results

|                         | ⇅ Mbps    | ↓ Mbps    | ↑ Mbps    | ↓ pkt/s   | ↑ pkt/s   |
| ----------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| cloudflare/mmproxy      | 1524.454  | 756.385   | 768.069   | 70365.9   | 65921.9   |
| go-mmproxy GOMAXPROCS=1 | 7418.312  | 2858.794  | 4559.518  | 262062.7  | 391334.6  |
| go-mmproxy              | 45483.233 | 16142.348 | 29340.885 | 1477889.6 | 2518271.5 |
| no proxy                | 52640.116 | 22561.129 | 30078.987 | 2065805.4 | 2581621.3 |

![result barchart](benchmark.png)

Commit message:

Add TPROXY support
Adds `-listen-transparent` option to set SO_TRANSPARENT on the listen
sockets, and a README description on how to set up TPROXY redirect
to go-mmproxy.

README.md, after:

# go-mmproxy

[![CI](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/actions/workflows/test.yml)
[![Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/kzemek/go-mmproxy)](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/releases/latest)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/kzemek/go-mmproxy)](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/blob/master/LICENSE)

`go-mmproxy` is a standalone application that unwraps HAProxy's [PROXY protocol](http://www.haproxy.org/download/1.8/doc/proxy-protocol.txt) (also adopted by other projects such as NGINX) so that the network connection to the end server comes from client's - instead of proxy server's - IP address and port number.
Because they share basic mechanisms, [Cloudflare's blogpost on mmproxy](https://blog.cloudflare.com/mmproxy-creative-way-of-preserving-client-ips-in-spectrum/) serves as a great write-up on how `go-mmproxy` works under the hood.

This is a Go reimplementation of [mmproxy](https://github.com/cloudflare/mmproxy), created to improve on mmproxy's runtime stability while providing potentially greater performance in terms of connection and packet throughput.

## Building

```shell
go install github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy@latest
```

You'll need at least `go 1.21` to build the `go-mmproxy` binary.
See [Go's Getting Started](https://golang.org/doc/install) if your package manager does not carry new enough version of golang.

## Requirements

`go-mmproxy` has to be ran:

- on the same server as the proxy target, as the communication happens over the loopback interface<sup>1</sup>;
- as root or with `CAP_NET_ADMIN` capability to be able to set `IP_TRANSPARENT` socket opt.

<sup>1</sup> This is not a hard requirement, and with routing magic go-mmproxy can be ran on a different host than the target(s).
See the [docker-example directory](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/tree/main/docker-example) for a working example.

## Running

### Routing setup

Route all traffic originating from loopback back to loopback:

```shell
ip rule add from 127.0.0.1/8 iif lo table 123
ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 123

ip -6 rule add from ::1/128 iif lo table 123
ip -6 route add local ::/0 dev lo table 123
```

If `--mark` option is given to `go-mmproxy`, all packets routed to the loopback interface will have the mark set.
This can be used for setting up more advanced routing rules with iptables, for example when you need traffic from loopback to be routed outside of the machine.

#### Routing UDP packets

Because UDP is connectionless, if a socket is bound to `0.0.0.0` the kernel stack will search for an interface in order to send a reply to the spoofed source address - instead of just using the interface it received the original packet from.
The found interface will most likely _not_ be the loopback interface, which will avoid the rules specified above.
The simplest way to fix this is to bind the end server's listeners to `127.0.0.1` (or `::1`).
This is also generally recommended in order to avoid receiving non-proxied connections.

#### Routing multiple ports

`go-mmproxy` can be set up to listen on multiple ports - even all ports of the machine - using Linux's [Transparent proxy support (TPROXY)](https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/networking/tproxy.html).
This works great together with the `-dynamic-destination` flag that will dynamically choose proxy target based on the PROXY protocol header.

For example, to set up `go-mmproxy` for a port range `10000-20000`:

```shell
# Set up a "local lookup" routing table 123 as in Routing setup above
ip rule add from 127.0.0.1/8 iif lo table 123
ip route add local 0.0.0.0/0 dev lo table 123

# Redirect any new packets coming in on ports 10000-20000 to go-mmproxy's listen
# port and mark them with 1
iptables -t mangle -A PREROUTING -p tcp --dport 10000:20000 -j TPROXY \
  --tproxy-mark 0x1/0x1 --on-port 25577 --on-ip 127.0.0.1

# Redirect marked packets to the "local lookup" table so they find their socket
ip rule add fwmark 1 lookup 123

# Start go-mmproxy with -listen-transparent
./go-mmproxy -l 0.0.0.0:25577 -4 127.0.0.1:25578 -6 [::1]:25578 -listen-transparent
```

### Starting go-mmproxy

```
Usage of ./go-mmproxy:
  -4 string
    	Address to which IPv4 traffic will be forwarded to (default "127.0.0.1:443")
  -6 string
    	Address to which IPv6 traffic will be forwarded to (default "[::1]:443")
  -allowed-subnets string
    	Path to a file that contains allowed subnets of the proxy servers
  -close-after int
    	Number of seconds after which UDP socket will be cleaned up on inactivity (default 60)
  -dynamic-destination
    	Traffic will be forwarded to the destination specified in the PROXY protocol header
  -l string
    	Address the proxy listens on (default "0.0.0.0:8443")
  -listen-transparent
    	Set IP_TRANSPARENT on the listen ports
  -listeners int
    	Number of listener sockets that will be opened for the listen address (Linux 3.9+) (default 1)
  -mark int
    	The mark that will be set on outbound packets
  -p string
    	Protocol that will be proxied: tcp, udp (default "tcp")
  -v int
    	0 - no logging of individual connections
    	1 - log errors occurring in individual connections
    	2 - log all state changes of individual connections
```

Example invocation:

```shell
sudo ./go-mmproxy -l 0.0.0.0:25577 -4 127.0.0.1:25578 -6 [::1]:25578 --allowed-subnets ./net-prefixes.txt
```

### Docker examples

You can find an example Dockerfile and a Docker Compose setup in the [docker-example directory](https://github.com/kzemek/go-mmproxy/tree/main/docker-example).

## Benchmark

### Setup

The benchmark was ran on Dell XPS 9570 with Intel Core i9-8950HK CPU @ 2.90GHz (12 logical cores). The upstream service to which proxy sent traffic was mocked by [bpf-echo](https://github.com/path-network/bpf-echo) server.
Traffic was generated by [tcpkali](https://github.com/satori-com/tcpkali) v1.1.1 .

The following command was used for load generation in all cases (50 connections, 10s runtime, send PROXYv1 header for each connection, use `PING\r\n` as TCP message):

```
tcpkali -c 50 -T 10s -e1 'PROXY TCP4 127.0.0.1 127.0.0.1 \{connection.uid} 25578\r\n' -m 'PING\r\n' 127.0.0.1:1122
```

### Results

|                         | ⇅ Mbps    | ↓ Mbps    | ↑ Mbps    | ↓ pkt/s   | ↑ pkt/s   |
| ----------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| cloudflare/mmproxy      | 1524.454  | 756.385   | 768.069   | 70365.9   | 65921.9   |
| go-mmproxy GOMAXPROCS=1 | 7418.312  | 2858.794  | 4559.518  | 262062.7  | 391334.6  |
| go-mmproxy              | 45483.233 | 16142.348 | 29340.885 | 1477889.6 | 2518271.5 |
| no proxy                | 52640.116 | 22561.129 | 30078.987 | 2065805.4 | 2581621.3 |

![result barchart](benchmark.png)
